    If Serial EM is already running from a previous capture:
        Check to see if prior capture went to completion. If it didn't, or the overview looks bad enough to recapture, see the protocol on recapturing using the same navigator items.
        Hit OK.
        Close Serial EM.
        Close navigator. Do not save.
    If the filament is on, turn it off.
    Pull out specimen rod to safety position. Flip pump switch to AIR.
    Remove rod, place in holder and place on bench.
    Insert new rod and flip pump switch to PUMP. Do NOT turn yet. Let pump down to green values. Then, twist rod and fully insert, gently.
    Check HT (should be at 80). Turn ON if necessary. Check filament beam current (should be @ 40 – 55).
    Open Serial EM.
    Raise screen (to protect sample in next steps).
    Hit low mag button and go to 150X.
    Turn aperture dial to red dot.
    Lower screen and turn on filament. Wait until fully on (bright green).
    Examine section for damage or large dirt.
        If there is dirt, you (or someone else in the lab) may be able to clean it, restain it and try again.
        If there are large holes, do not run LowMagCook
        If there are small holes, sit and watch carefully during the LowMagCook, and stop it if any holes get bigger.
    Locate center of tissue (move if necessary).
    Cook tissue:
        Center the beam and condense beam to inner brackets. Make sure you are at 150X!
        Change spot size to 1. Cook for 7 minutes using Burn Wobble (see below).
        Run > Macro 1: Burn wobble.

Bonus: this will start a timer – expand the Log dialogue box to watch the time.

    To stop cooking after the 7 minutes, change spot size to 3.

    Find the center point of the capture region using the screenshots in DROPBOX from the previous section.
    Find center spot – Image – Screen Capture – Paste in Paint – Crop - Save to DROPBOX in file: "RC3 [Sec#] 150X"
    
    Note: To crop in Paint on Windows XP, you have to copy the region you want to crop to, and paste it into a new file.
    
    Raise screen (to prevent damage to section in next step).
    If using TEM1,
        Return aperture to first white dot (aperture 1; largest white dot on dial).
    If using TEM2,
        Return aperture to second white dot (aperture 2; second-largest white dot on dial).
    Hit mag 1 button (or just Mag on TEM2).
    Lower screen and lower mag to 600X while spreading beam.
    Center the aperture if you are using TEM1.
    Find center spot – Image – Screen Capture – Paste in Paint – Crop - Save to DROPBOX in file: "RC3 [Sec#] 600X"
    Go to 2000X.
    Recenter BOTH aperture and beam.
    Put the mirror down and make sure the Current Density is near 250 for TEM1 or 65 for TEM2.
    Find center spot. Place SerialEM marker at the center point.
    Image – Screen Capture – Paste in Paint – Crop - Save to DROPBOX in file: "RC3 [Sec#] 2000X"
    Open Navigator.
    Navigator (in toolbar) > open
    Navigator (in toolbar) > Montage and grids > Add circular polygon (or draw polygon for non-connectome volumes) > Enter desired radius (125 for RC2, 45 RPC2).
    Use the scrollbar to find an empty part of the formvar. Press RECORD to make sure it is normal at the center.
        If you see a circular artifact over the formvar, move to a different part of formvar and RECORD again. If the same circular artifact is there, you need to run gain reference before starting the capture.
    Navigator window > add stage pos (to add the point on the formvar as a reference point)
    You should have two navigator items, a polygon and a point on the formvar.

    Go to 5000X.
    Recenter beam.
    In Acquire dialogue box:
        New file item > Montage > Fit to polygon > OK > OK.
        Create new folder for section number (if this is a recapture, followed by "B", "C", "D", etc.) > open folder and save: Sec#.idoc for connectome volumes Bloc#_Grid#.idoc
    Lower screen and narrow the beam to 2 clicks inside the inner brackets.
    Calibration > Image shift (make sure you are at5000X and spot size 2!!).
        See if calibration says: “THIS IS GOOD”. If not, redo calibration until it does.
        If message pops up: “Do you want to modify all other old measured…” > select NO.
    Navigator > Acquire at points > HighMagCook for a new capture, CalibrateAndRecapture for any section that seems fragile, or has already been cooked and/or captured before.
    If this is the last capture of the day, make sure "Turn filament off when done" is checked.
    Watch for a moment to ensure the pre-capture process is proceeding normally.
        That includes: Another ImageShift, HighMagCook, WaitForStableFilament, and the sending of the start notification.
    A notes window will pop open. Enter: 
        TEM#
        Section# or Bloc#
        Grid#
        Rod#
        Investigator
        Operator
        Whether this is the first capture with a new filament
        Any new changes made in settings
        Any relevant observations regarding the capture process or data quality, Examples: “Building demolition next door” or “First capture after transition to copper grids”
        Any other notes
        Save as Sec#.txt for connectome volumes or Bloc#_Grid#notes.txt for other captures (Be aware the notes.txt remains with the data and can be seen online with the published data.) In the same folder as the capture
    
    SerialEM will automatically capture the montage. Indicated by status bar stating “capturing X of total # of tiles”.
        
    Once capture is complete,
        For Connectome captures: copy the capture folder to the volume folder on Dropbox (e.g RC2, RC3, RPC2, etc).
        For Non connectome projects: label capture folder Bloc#_Grid# and put it inside a folder named Investigator_ExperimentalSeriesName on DROPBOX.